README.md, before:

# Fugl

[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/fugl.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/fugl)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/alexjeffburke/fugl/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/alexjeffburke/fugl)
[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/alexjeffburke/fugl/master.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/alexjeffburke/fugl?branch=master)

A tool for verifying that changes to a package do not affect projects dependent upon it.

## Introduction

Most projects fortunate enough to see wider use end up with a tension between changes that
move things forward and consumers that depend on features and behaviours of existing versions.

Fugl intends to provide a way to address that question by providing automation around gaining
confidence that forward progress does not come at the expense of compatibility.

[Relevant discussion at npm](https://github.com/npm/npm/issues/6510).

## Use

### Interactively with npx

To check a project currently being worked on the Fugl binary can be invoked via `npx`.
The current directory is scanned for package.json and tested against the listed projects:

```
npx fugl --projects https://github.com/alexjeffburke/jest-unexpected
```

You can also specify the npm name of projects and Fugl will try to discover the repository:

```
npx fugl --projects assert-the-unexpected
```

### Installed as a CLI

The module can also also installed globally or as a project dependency and provides a fugl binary.

```
npm install -g fugl
```

```
fugl --package <packageName>@<packageVersion> --projects https://github.com/someone/somepackage
```

By default, Fugl will output the success or failure of the tests it performs to the console. You
can also specify other reporters, and they correspond to the names of mocha reporters. Perhaps of
most interest is the HTML reporter, which will write a self contained breakage report that can be
viewed within the browser:

```
fugl --package unexpected --projects https://github.com/alexjeffburke/jest-unexpected --reporter html

// ...

open breakage/index.html
```

## Automatic dependent fetching

Fugl includes the ability to use various external services to deduce a set of dependents for
a package. There are two supported metrics: "downloads" and "stars". These two metrics
can be selected by the `fetch` command.

### Downloads

Fugl will query the npm API for information about package dependents:

```
fugl fetch downloads --package assert-the-unexpected
```

### Stars

Fugl will try to derive the repositories for any supplied projects and then issue queries to
GitHub to retrieve the number of stars each project has. Using this is as simple as:

```
fugl fetch stars --package unexpected
```

### Dependency information via Liraries.IO

One limitation of the npm dependents data is that it only includes information about those packages
listed as direct depedents. In order to fetch `devDependencies`, the tool is also integrated with
[Libraries.IO](https://libraries.io).

Signing up for this tool will provide you with an API key which can be used with Fugl as follows:

```
fugl fetch downloads --package assert-the-unexpected --librariesio <api_key>
```

## Architecture

Internally Fugl is implemented as a [mocha](https://mochajs.org/)-esque test runner. As checks are
executed events are emitted which are passed into [reporters](https://mochajs.org/#reporters) that
generate output information. A default reporter is included which outputs to the console.

In the case of the HTML reporter, we use JSDOM as the output document and serialise a report on exit.

## Credits

This tool started began as a fork of [dont-break](https://github.com/bahmutov/dont-break.git) but the
drift of use-cases required a substantial rework and thus Fugl was born. Since then almost the entire
codebase has been rewritten.

### Compatibility with dont-break

Some effort was made to continue to support users of `dont-break`. The fugl binary accept a config
parameter which can be used to load a dont-break JSON config file:

```
fugl --config .dont-break.json
```

As development has continued, previous configurations my require changes as functionality is replaced:

- config files containing an array of projects at the top level

```
// .dont-break.json
["project1", "project2"]

// must be rewritten as:
{
  "projects": ["project1", "project2"]
}
```

- config files containing topDownloads or topStarred

```
// for topDownloads
fugl fetch downloads

// for topStarred
fugl fetch stars
```

Commit message:

Discuss chaining via stdin in the README.

README.md, after:

# Fugl

[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/fugl.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/fugl)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/travis/alexjeffburke/fugl/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/alexjeffburke/fugl)
[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/alexjeffburke/fugl/master.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/alexjeffburke/fugl?branch=master)

A tool for verifying that changes to a package do not affect projects dependent upon it.

## Introduction

Most projects fortunate enough to see wider use end up with a tension between changes that
move things forward and consumers that depend on features and behaviours of existing versions.

Fugl intends to provide a way to address that question by providing automation around gaining
confidence that forward progress does not come at the expense of compatibility.

[Relevant discussion at npm](https://github.com/npm/npm/issues/6510).

## Use

### Interactively with npx

To check a project currently being worked on the Fugl binary can be invoked via `npx`.
The current directory is scanned for package.json and tested against the listed projects:

```
npx fugl --projects https://github.com/alexjeffburke/jest-unexpected
```

You can also specify the npm name of projects and Fugl will try to discover the repository:

```
npx fugl --projects assert-the-unexpected
```

### Installed as a CLI

The module can also also installed globally or as a project dependency and provides a fugl binary.

```
npm install -g fugl
```

```
fugl --package <packageName>@<packageVersion> --projects https://github.com/someone/somepackage
```

By default, Fugl will output the success or failure of the tests it performs to the console. You
can also specify other reporters, and they correspond to the names of mocha reporters. Perhaps of
most interest is the HTML reporter, which will write a self contained breakage report that can be
viewed within the browser:

```
fugl --package unexpected --projects https://github.com/alexjeffburke/jest-unexpected --reporter html

// ...

open breakage/index.html
```

## Automatic dependent fetching

Fugl includes the ability to use various external services to deduce a set of dependents for
a package. There are two supported metrics: "downloads" and "stars". These two metrics
can be selected by the `fetch` command.

### Downloads

Fugl will query the npm API for information about package dependents:

```
fugl fetch downloads --package assert-the-unexpected
```

### Stars

Fugl will try to derive the repositories for any supplied projects and then issue queries to
GitHub to retrieve the number of stars each project has. Using this is as simple as:

```
fugl fetch stars --package unexpected
```

### Dependency information via Liraries.IO

One limitation of the npm dependents data is that it only includes information about those packages
listed as direct depedents. In order to fetch `devDependencies`, the tool is also integrated with
[Libraries.IO](https://libraries.io).

Signing up for this tool will provide you with an API key which can be used with Fugl as follows:

```
fugl fetch downloads --package assert-the-unexpected --librariesio <api_key>
```

## Command line interface and chaining

The Fugl CLI is desgined to be helpful and, in the absence of arguments, invocation of the supported
commands will result in extensive explanation of supported options and their meaning. These include:

- `fugl check`
- `fugl fetch`

> the Fugl CLI defaults to the command fugl when executed directly

### Chaining via stdin

Configuration for `check` can also be supplied via stdin. In practice, this means that the output of
fetch can be directly piped into using the UNIX shell facilities:

```
fugl fetch downloads --package unexpected | fugl check
```

## Architecture

Internally Fugl is implemented as a [mocha](https://mochajs.org/)-esque test runner. As checks are
executed events are emitted which are passed into [reporters](https://mochajs.org/#reporters) that
generate output information. A default reporter is included which outputs to the console.

In the case of the HTML reporter, we use JSDOM as the output document and serialise a report on exit.

## Credits

This tool started began as a fork of [dont-break](https://github.com/bahmutov/dont-break.git) but the
drift of use-cases required a substantial rework and thus Fugl was born. Since then almost the entire
codebase has been rewritten.

### Compatibility with dont-break

Some effort was made to continue to support users of `dont-break`. The fugl binary accept a config
parameter which can be used to load a dont-break JSON config file:

```
fugl --config .dont-break.json
```

As development has continued, previous configurations my require changes as functionality is replaced:

- config files containing an array of projects at the top level

```
// .dont-break.json
["project1", "project2"]

// must be rewritten as:
{
  "projects": ["project1", "project2"]
}
```

- config files containing topDownloads or topStarred

```
// for topDownloads
fugl fetch downloads

// for topStarred
fugl fetch stars
```
